# Lab 2 - Set Covering using GA 

This solution has been developed in collaboration with my colleague Antonio De Cinque (303503).

We tried to solve the Set Covering problem using a Genetic Algorithm.

Starting from the lists generated by `problem` using `seed = 42`, we removed duplicated lists, which are quite useless in order to find a solution.

The first step of the algorithm consists in generating a population: each individual in the population is generated randomically, deciding randomically for each list of numbers to take it or not. 
We have used a binary representation to create the population: each genome contains a list of 0 and 1, which represent the lists of numbers included in that genome.

Genomes are evaluated using a `fitness` function. In this case, we have assigned to each genome a tuple `(c,-w)`, in which the first value represent the **coverage** of that genome, so the different values covered by that particulare genome, and the second value represent the **weigth** of that genome, so the total number of values included in that genome, also considering repetitions. We have added a minus to the weigth, since we prefer finding solution with a lower weight.
So, two genomes are compared using coverage; if two genomes have the same coverage, we chose the one with the lower weight.

In our Genetic Algorithm we use both **mutation** and **crossover**: for each generation we generate mutated offsprings with a **mutation rate** = 0.3. 

We use as a stopping condition a maximum number of generations. If we obtain an optimal solution before reaching the maximum number of generations, we stop the algorithm.

